# 2026-02-09
Sign into GitHub - personal email works too

1. "Muddiest Moment" - At the end of each day look at your notes and identify at least one of the things that is the opposite of #1 below. Before you leave for the day - do this.

2. Every morning after today we will start with me asking a random selection of you this question
    - What do you remember that was helpful from yesterday?  
    -> Keyboard shortcuts, how to create style Markdown files   
    -> How to show preview: `ctrl+shift+v`  
    - What was cool and you want to know more about?  


Jeff talked about [[Markdown]]

Cool Extensions:  
    1. Foam - VS Code Markdown  
    2. Excalidraw - Similar to draw.io/Mural to draw schemas  

---
### Notes:  
TFS - Team Foundation Server - A Microsoft tool for source code control  
    - It is centralized version control. It is not the best  
    - No local copy of the source code history, if internet is down, oh well can't do anything  
Git - Decentralized - ANARCHY!!! You aren't the boss of me  
    - Everybody has a copy of the code, including code history  
GitHub - A centralized repository for all your projects. Not used to be MicroSoft, but now it is  
Azure DevOps - Supports CI/CD (Continuous Integration Continuous Deployment)  


What do you store in git?   (Read about Twelve Factor App)
    - Code that you and your team OWN and change
    - Don't store other stuff there
        - Libraries you use (dlls, etc.) - Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies
        - Other teams code
        - Even things like images, stuff like that - have to be careful

.NET - Even for long term support (3 years), odd for short term

- How can I have all source code AND all the history on every machine?
    - You have the current version you've fetched
    - You have "Deltas" (patches) of all changes
    - Usually that isn't too much

--- 
### How to track changes locally:  
Commands:  
    - `git init`, command to check if it worked: `explorer .`  
    - `git add .` (For all files)  
    - `git commit -m "Initial"` (For a specific message)  
    - `gh repo create` - To create a repo from local on GitHub  
    - `gh browse` - Opens a browser explorer with that repo on GitHub  

Merge Conflicts: When 2 people push different code in one file to the same repository
- You can push this change IF the version of this that is up there now matches exactly the version you are replacing
How to stop merge conflict from happening:
- Fetch frequently and push at least daily
    - Get the latest changes as often as you can
    - Don't let the code ferment on your machine - push (reconcile) at least once a day
- Structure your app and code in a way that no two developers should have any excuse to work on the same file at the same time
    - This is why we tend to have "lots of small files"
    - Organizing our code base around "business features" instead of technical concerts

Storing binaries, dependencies all that WAS a good practice, not so good anymore
It isn't about right or wrong, its about perspective.

---
A big company should have a single point of truth for all their data.
Big database, with stored procedures, rules, and the SMART people work on that.

Cloud:  
    - Distributed applications will use the SOAP protocol  
    - We will be a "Microsoft" shop - .NET  
    - We want to move more here but  
        - .NET Framework (old school) cannot run there and the way we deal we data, that's a problem too

Check out IBM Mainframe on YouTube

---
### Different environments:
* Development - where we will write the code
* Test / Staging - Where the code that is written will be tested
* Production - The main environment that counts, the final code is here
    * Identity: Ping Federated - supports industry standard processes (OIDC/Oauth2)
    * DBAs - Caring for and feeding databased. Securing them, etc. - A HUGE Job (Not responsible as a software developer).
    * We only have finite selection of databases to choose from as a team.
        * DB2, SQL Server, MongoDB, Postgres, Cloud offerings (AWS RDS)

Best Practice:  
If you can replicate as closely as possible the production environment in every environment, you'll have less production issues.  
The less your app relies on, the better. Take as few dependencies as possible
    * More next week with messaging, etc.

"Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)"


- Onboarding new developers is super easy - clone our repo, get to work
- Containers ("A.k.a. Docker") lets us run software that:
    * Won't break other things on our machine (They are in a protective container)
    * And match what you have in other environments (dev/prod parity)

- To run "doubles" of our backing services that are in production
- Scripts that just run different containers
- Docker has a thing called "docker compose" that lets us run a bunch of things
- "Aspire" - Microsoft app that lets you create a local development environment AND make it so that can be deployed
    * We are not going to do the second part (deploying)
- Kubernetes
    - Pretty good
- Docker Compose
- AWS
- Azure - NOT in beta

---
### Infrastructure of our Application

-> Our App
    -> Postgres Database (v17.5)
    -> Authentik Identity Provider (OpenID Connect - OIDC/Oauth2)
    -> Angular App "Frontend" (Angular 21 application)
    -> An API that the Angular app can talk to (.NET Core 10 API)
    -> Gateway